 
 
Peter Planner 
566 Roadsmith Terrace, Halifax, Nova Scotia, B3R 0A3 • (902)555-8956 •email@dal.ca 
 
Objective 
To obtain a planning position through which I can contribute and further develop my advanced analytical, 
communication and project management skills. 
 
Education 
Master of Planning                                                                                                       September 2006- April 2008 
Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia 
 Concentration in urban design 
 
Bachelor of Arts                                                                                                                                        2001-2005 
McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario 
 Major in Sociology, Minor in Anthropology 
 
Related Courses and Skills 
 
Planning 
 Relevant courses including: planning history and philosophy, planning law, planning practice, studio (site 
analysis, site design and urban design), policy analysis and implementation methods and site infrastructure 
 Strong understanding of land use planning theories and principles 
 Experience with legislation analysis and interpretation 
 
Technical 
 Proficient in Windows as well as Macintosh environments 
 Design skills: including graphic, document, 2D and 3D representation 
 Architectural Technology courses: Land Surveying Fundamentals, Drafting Fundamentals,  
 (Holland College, Charlottetown, PEI) 
 Proficient with AutoCAD, GIS, Google Sketch-up, Microsoft Suite (Word, Excel, PowerPoint) and Adobe 
Design Suite (Illustrator, InDesign, Photoshop) 
 
Management 
 Advanced organizational and time management skills 
 Strong motivational, problem solving and conflict resolution skills 
 Excellent multi-tasker. 
 
Communication 
 Extensive experience in researching, interpreting and analyzing information 
 Excellent oral presentation skills: confident, prepared and engaged 
 Comfortable working both individually and in various sized groups 
 First-rate interpersonal skills: understanding and dependable 
 
Projects 
 
Primary Researcher                                                                                                      September - December 2007 
Project: Regional Planning in Prince Edward Island 
Client: Province of Prince Edward Island 
 Conducted an independent research project involving the development of a regional land-use planning model 
for Prince Edward Island to be used for discussion and education purposes for higher levels of government 
and possible implementation. 
 Components included: case study research of regional land use planning frameworks, objective formulation for purposes of 
framework analysis, analysis and evaluation of models, report writing and designing, recommendation formulation. 
This COMBINATION RESUME highlights relevant courses and skills, academic projects and experience. The student has 
included Dining Room Manager as relevant experience to highlight interpersonal skills. 
Peter Planner                                                                                                                                                    Page 2/2 
 
Projects (cont’d) 
 
Team member                                                                                                                              January 2008 – Present 
Project: Redevelopment Plan for Dartmouth Cove 
Client: Waterfront Development Corporation Limited, Halifax, Nova Scotia 
 Worked cohesively with three classmates to create a Redevelopment Plan for six-acre Brownfield site in 
Dartmouth Cove, Nova Scotia for the purpose of creating a vision for the site for future development. 
 Components included: background research (of site, site context, and policy framework, waterfront uses) stakeholder consultation, 
public consultation and presentations, evaluation of development options, report writing and designing, market and financial 
analysis and preparation of visual material including concept sketches and 3D modeling. 
 
Relevant Experience 
 
Planning Intern                                                                                                                                  May – August 2007 
Town of Hamilton, Ontario 
 Designed town map from GIS data, prepared town overview for reverse side of map and followed the project 
successfully through to completion. 
 Observed and assisted with daily tasks of town planner. 
 Skills employed: research, data compilation, writing, graphic skills/software, editing and consultation. 
 
Planning Intern                                                                                                                                 May – August 2006 
Province of Prince Edward Island, Charlottetown, PEI 
 Researched and compiled information package for local municipal officials on the process and benefits of, the 
steps to, and the legislation surrounding municipal planning in P.E.I.  
 Reviewed municipal submissions for Official Plan and Bylaw amendments to ensure the proper procedure 
was followed and the correct documentation was included and prepared packages for the minister to approve. 
 Various other projects included the gathering of data and documents into an organized system to aid staff in 
the timely access to information. 
 Skills employed: research, data compilation, writing, program development analysis, organization, familiarity with material and 
knowledge of legislation. 
 
Dining Room Manager                                                                                                                                            2006 
Mel’s Diner, Hamilton, Ontario 
 Successfully trained, supervised and scheduled 20+ employees to ensure outstanding Customer Satisfaction. 
 Ensured seamless daily operation of a fast paced family dining room. 
 Resolved conflict between both customers and staff through the use of mediation skills such as empathy, 
listening and respect. 
 Skills employed: communication, organization, multitasking, problem solving and conflict resolution. 
 
Interests and Activities 
 
Professional Affiliations: 
 Student Member                                                                                                                       2007 - Present 
 Canadian Institute of Planners, Atlantic Planners Institute 
 
Volunteering/Professional Development: 
 Volunteer & Attendee                                                                                                                    2007, 2008 
  Dalhousie School of Planning conference, Halifax, Nova Scotia 
  Atlantic Planning Institute conference, Truro, Nova Scotia 
  HRM by Design – Regional Centre Urban Design study, Halifax, Nova Scotia    
                 East Coast Music Awards 72 Hour Jam, Halifax, Nova Scotia 
 
 
 
