SANJAY SCIENCE 
123 Ellis Street • Halifax, Nova Scotia • B5H 2C8 • (123) 456 7891 • cfrumand@mail.com 
 
 
E D U C A T I O N  
Bachelor of Science, Occupational Therapy                                                                              2000 - 2004 
Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia 
 Dean's list four consecutive semesters  
 
 
A C H I E V E M E N T S  
 Chosen by Dr. Ling (professor of Occupational Therapy) to be the lead student to research and 
compile data on the use of Occupational Therapy in nursing homes.  
 Published 3 articles on studying Occupational Therapy and the employment trends for Nova Scotia 
Occupational Therapy Association Monthly newsletter. 
 Accepted by and participated in the Occupational Therapy project at the University of Chicago; 
received a grade of ‘A’. 
 Received positive feedback from Clinical supervisors on my in-depth knowledge, patient care and 
positive attitude.  
 
 
P R O F E S S I O N A L  A S S O C I A T I O N  
 Member, Nova Scotia Occupational Therapy Association                                              2004-Present 
 Member, Canadian Occupational Therapy Association                                                   2004-Present 
 
 
C L I N I C A L  E X P E R I E N C E  
Assistant Occupational Therapist 
LEARNING PREP SCHOOL, Halifax, NS                                                                                              2003 
 Worked one-on-one and in group settings with students having developmental delays, mental 
retardation and related learning disabilities to perform interventions including Gross and Fine Motor 
Therapy, Visual-Perceptual-Motor Therapy, Vocational Training and Neurodevelopmental 
Techniques in individual therapy.  
 Supervised community outings, visual-perceptual-motor group, pre-vocational and vocational work 
centers. 
 Analyzed clients' capabilities and expectations related to life activities through observation, interviews 
and formal assessments 
In this sample resume, CLINICAL EXPERIENCE is an essential aspect of a resume for students in health related field with 
limited work experience.  Including “Professional Affiliations” indicates a student’s dedication to their field.  Achievements 
show the employer that this person is effective; the work that they’re doing WORKS!  “Related Experience” and “Other Work 
Experience” are separated to allow for more detail on experiences that are relevant to the position.   
S AN JAY  SC IE NC E P G .  2  
 
Assistant Occupational Therapist 
SPAULDING REHABILITATION HOSPITAL, Halifax, NS                                                   Summer 2002 
 Handled a case load of over 25 patients with cardiac and pulmonary disorders, lower limb 
amputations, stroke, brain injury and reflex sympathetic dystrophy.  
 Performed interventions including neuron-developmental technique, joint mobilization, deep friction 
massage, computer assisted cognitive therapy, community mobility, home program planning, home 
evaluations and evaluations in all related areas.  
 Developed strong rapport with clients through open communication, empathy, attentive listening 
and humour.  
 
Occupational Therapy Internship 
MORING PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL, Dartmouth, NS                                                           Summer 2001 
 Worked with adolescent, adult and geriatric patients with affective chronic thought process, social 
and personality disorders, as well as substance abuse disorders.  
 Supervised general activities period; direct involvement ensured a safe and active environment. 
 Administered initial evaluations, vocational readiness evaluations, and leisure planning evaluations.  
 Motivated clients through encouragement, articulating progress and reward schemes. 
 Practiced student project on techniques in occupational therapy in psychiatry, resulting in an “A” 
grade. 
 
Mental Health Assistant  
SUGAR CREEK CHILDREN'S UNIT, Dartmouth Psychiatric Hospital, Dartmouth, NS                Fall 2000 
 Worked with adolescents ages 12-16 on a 30 patient unit.  
 Facilitated Milieu Therapy and one-on-one counselling for behavioural management issues.  
 Observed and restrained, when necessary, aggressive or self-abusive patients and provided custodial 
care.  
 Observed strict confidentiality with clients and displayed empathy, strong listening skills and patience 
with patients at all times. 
 
 
 
O T H E R  W O R K  E X P E R I E N C E  
Supervisor, Celtic Corner Public House, Dartmouth N.S.                                                                        2003 
Bartender/Waiter, Royal Nova Yacht Squadron, Halifax N.S.                                                                2002 
Waiter, Brisbane City Polo Club, Brisbane, Australia                                                                                1999 
 
 
V O L U N T E E R  E X P E R I E N C E  
Volunteer, IWK Children’s Hospital, Halifax, NS                                                                                     2004 
Fundraiser, Canadian Cancer Association, Halifax, NS                                                                            2003 
 
 
