Adam Rosa
Urban Designer / Project Manager
 ceRtificAtion American Institute of Certified Planners (AICP)
 educAtion University of Cincinnati, Cincinnati, OH; B.S. Urban Planning, 2000
 fiRm Responsibilities Adam is currently the project manager for the Ho’opili Master Plan, a 1,600 acre “new 
town” being developed in western Oahu.  Ho’opili, focusing on two proposed rail 
stations, is the first transit-oriented development in the state of Hawaii and is also 
one of a handful of pilot projects that will be considered for LEED-ND accreditation.  
Adam is also currently leading the Aiea / Pearl City Neighborhood TOD Plan and the 
East Kapolei Neighborhood TOD Plan for the City and County of Honolulu, which are 
the second and third in a series of community-driven, City-sponsored TOD plans along 
the proposed high capacity transit corridor.  The TOD Plans will include alternatives, 
phasing strategies and overlay zoning regulations that will be specifically tailored 
to each station area in order to fully implement the community’s vision. Back on the 
mainland, Adam is currently leading the Northside and Upper Kirby Livable Centers 
Projects for the Houston / Galveston Area Council and TOD Design Guidelines for the 
City of Westminster, CO. 
 peRsonAl pRofile Adam has over twelve years of experience in which he has demonstrated an ability 
to generate creative urban design and planning concepts on a wide variety of 
projects. He has led and managed a number of complex projects from the proposal 
and interview phase through the final approval process.  Clients count on his 
organizational skills, creative abilities and attention to detail.  Adam has  excellent 
graphic, written and verbal communication skills and extensive experience in making 
presentations to developers, community groups, city staff and political leadership. 
His recent professional experience has focused on overall marketing efforts, transit-
oriented development, master planning of urban infill sites and creating design 
guidelines for a range of land uses and building types.
 
 publicAtions The True Experience of Transit - Planning in Paradise III: Urban Redevelopment, 
University of Hawaii, Honolulu, Hawaii.  2007
 exhibitions Broadway by Night, a Nocturnal Tour of North Beach, City Space Exhibition.  2004
 
 AwARds n Waipahu Neighborhood TOD Plan, APA Hawaii Chapter Award.  
2009 (Project Manager)
n Mountain View Rowhouse Guidelines and Standards, APA California Chapter 
Award.  2006.  (Project Manager)
 lectuRes n Transit-Oriented Development - From Vision to Reality, Mayor’s Cabinet, Honolulu, 
Hawaii.  2007
n Honolulu Transit Symposium, Honolulu, Hawaii.  2007
  Resumé
