Page 1 of 3
RESUME
                                                    AJITHA SHENOY .K.B,
PhD student (Computer Science),
Room No. CS 106
Department of Computer Science,
IIT, KANPUR,
UP, INDIA.
E-mail : ajithshenoy2003@yahoo.com  or
              ajith@cse.iitk.ac.in   or  ajith@iitk.ac.in
Mobile : 91- 9305326504,  91 – 9839791934 (R)
                                                              
Career Objective: To pursue a challenging career and be part of a progressive 
organization that gives scope to enhance my knowledge, skills and to reach the pinnacle 
in the computing and research field with sheer determination, dedication and hard work.
Work Experience:
 Pursuing research in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering 
at IIT, Kanpur.
 Worked as a Lecturer in the Department of Information & Communication 
Technology at Manipal Institute of Technology, MANIPAL from 04-09-2003 to 
19-12-2007 ( 4 years 3 months).
 1.5 years of work experience as a Lecturer in the Department of Mathematics at    
Government College, Kasaragod – 671 121.
Projects & Work Done:
1. M.Tech Project: “TCP SWITCHING”
Technology Used: C, Linux
Responsibility: My responsibilities were to code and to document.
Project Description: Using circuit switching technology in packet 
switched network to speed up the transmission process. Built a 
Linux kernel module for easy integration of the solution to the 
enterprise environment.
2.  Worked as a team member in PHILIPS BOP project (TELE MEDICINE project in 
     rural area). 
http://www.grassrootinnovations.org/BoP_engagements/ajitha_shenoy.htm
Responsibility: Conducted survey in rural areas and primary health care centers 
to understand the feasibility and demand for the TELE MEDICINE project.  
Based on the statistics draw graphs and analyze the survey results.  Also they 
involved me in Idea Evaluation to check whether the Ideas given by the people 
are new and patentable. 
     Got Appreciation Certificate from Philips, India
Page 2 of 3
3. Guided several B.E, MCA projects.
4. Taken Online VSAT classes for Sikkim Manipal University.
5. Taken Classes for BE (IT), MCA and M.Tech (Software Engineering) at 
     Manipal Institute of Technology (MIT), Manipal, Karnataka State.
6.  Taken Classes for B.Sc (Mathematics), M.Sc(Mathematics) at Govt. College, 
     Kasaragod, Kerala State.
Academic Profile:  
Pursuing P.hD in the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, IIT,   
Kanpur. Completed 1.5 years with CPI of 9 out of 10
GATE – 2000 Qualified (All India 156th Rank)
Examination
          Passed
University/Board Year % Marks 
Obtained
Class
B.Sc 
(Mathematics)
Calicut University 1997 89.8           First with 
Distinction 
(First in the 
Class)
M.Sc
(Mathematics) Kannur University 1999 76.27
First with 
Distinction 
(First in the 
Class)
M.Tech 
(Computer and 
Information 
Science)
Cochin University 2003
CGPA
8.11 out 
10
First with 
Distinction
Technical Skills:          
Programming languages   : C, C++, MFC, VC++, VB.Net, JAVA
Back end       : ORACLE 9i
Operating System             : Windows, Linux
Tools       : VMware
Field of interest       : Algorithms, Graph Algorithms, Randomized Algorithms, Bio-
informatics, Data Structures, Object Oriented Technology,  Computational Geometry,  
and Mathematics.
Page 3 of 3
Subject Taught :
Design and Analysis of Algorithm, Object Oriented Programming Using C++, Visual 
Programming (VC++), System Simulation and Modeling, Multimedia Communication, 
Advanced Computer Networks, Mathematics.
Extra Co curricular Activities :
1. Attended 19th Jyvaskyla summer school on Evolutionary Algorithms conducted by 
     University of Jyvaskyla, Finland (from 17-21st August 2009 )
2. Attended two days workshop on "Server Virtualization Technology" Conducted by 
    Computer Science Department MIT, Manipal. Lectures and hands on experience class 
    taken by Software Engineers from Vmware.
3.  Attended training in Microsoft .NET organized by Manipal Universal learning  & 
   Department of Computer Science Engineering, MIT, Manipal. Training given by 
     Indicom software & Services.
4.  Attended workshops conducted by Dept. of Bio Medical Engg and Dept. of 
     Information and communication Technology, Manipal Institute of Technology,
     Manipal.
5.  Finance coordinator for International Conference conducted by Dept. of Information 
     and Communication Technology, Manipal Institute of Technology, Manipal.
6.  Department representative for MAHE website development committee.
Personal Profile:
Name: AJITHA SHENOY .K.B
Gender: Male
Date of birth: 28-05-1977
Marital status: Single
Nationality: Indian
Father’s Name: Late. Sri. K.B. Narayana Shenoy
Linguistic Ability:      English, Hindi, Kannada, Malayalam, Konkani, Tulu                                   
Passport Number:       F7190229 
Present Address:
                B5, SBRA
                                                Indian Institute of Technology,
                                                KANPUR – 208016.
Personal Strength: Leadership skills, Self-confidence, Optimism and Hard working.
Declaration: I hereby declare that all the details furnished above are true to the best of 
my knowledge and belief.
                                                                                                   AJITHA SHENOY .K.B
