Andrew Faulkner
Urban Designer
 PROFESSION n	 LEED Green Associate
n	 Associate AIA
n	 SPUR
n	 Trace SF Contributor
 EDUCATION n	 Washington University in St. Louis; Master of Architecture, 2009
  n	 Washington University in St. Louis; Master of Urban Design, 2009
n	 The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio; B.S. Architecture, 2006
 FIRM RESPONSIBILITIES As an urban designer with Van Meter Williams Pollack, Andrew contributes to 
projects ranging from streetscape design and placemaking for market-rate and 
affordable development to planning frameworks for local governments. Andrew’s 
diverse experience allows him to serve VMWP as a utility player on both architecture 
and planning projects and ensures continuity across disciplines.
 PERSONAL PROFILE Andrew believes that the potential of design is realized through the creation of 
unique and sustainable places to live, work, and inhabit, and that successful design 
must work across scales from the room to the city beyond. Andrew’s passion lies in 
the creation of communities that are walkable, inclusive, and sustainable.
  Prior to joining VMWP, Andrew was responsible for creating client value through 
the successful entitlement of over 200 multifamily housing units. He has experience 
in contexts ranging from non-profit community design and advocacy, to production 
multifamily residential design and luxury interiors. Andrew is a former adjunct 
professor in architecture and urban design (2010-2012) at Washington University 
in St. Louis, past Vice Chair of the City to River urban design advocacy group, and 
current contributor to the TraceSF journal of Bay Area Urbanism. Outside of work 
Andrew devotes his time to exploring cities, making furniture and fixtures, biking, 
hiking, and gardening.
 PUBLICATIONS n Planned Growth or Unplanned Strife?: TraceSF, co-writer, February 2014.
  n AB InBev Holds Key to South Riverfront Trail: NextSTL, contributor August 2011.
	 	 n The $10 Million Idea: St. Louis Magazine, contributor, September 2010. 
	
 EXHIBITIONS Organizer of Open/Closed conference on vacant property in St. Louis. March 2011 and 
April 2012
	
 AWARDS Appointed to the St. Louis Mayor’s Vanguard Committee: Planning, Landuse, and 
Zoning subcommittee. Jan 2010-May 2012
	 COMPETITIONS n    ReBurbia: A Suburban Redesign Competition, notable mention, July 2009.
  n    ULI Hines interdisciplinary urban design competition, shortlisted, 2007 and 2008.
  RESUMÉ
