Cheney Brooke Bostic
Urban Designer / Project Manager
 profession LEED Accredited Professional 
 eduCation n	 University of Oregon, Eugene, OR; Master of Architecture, 2006
n	 Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, IL; B.S. Architecture, 2004
 firm responsiBilities Cheney currently Project Manages and designs many of VMWP’s urban design 
projects.  Some recent projects include: Aiea-Pearl City Neighborhood TOD 
in Honolulu, HI; Clear Creek Transit Village in Adams County, CO;  Waipahu 
Neighborhood TOD in Honolulu, HI; North End Station Design Guidelines in Thornton, 
CO; North Gate Center in Westminster, CO; and Superior New Town Center in 
Superior, CO.  Each of these projects implement Transit Oriented Development and 
designing urban places around transportation options and the pedestrian.  Cheney is 
also in charge of a national research project funded by the FTA: ‘Land Use Planning 
for Transit Supportive Development: A Practitioner’s Guide’, working with the 
New Jersey Institute of Technology.  Cheney also enjoys leading and helping with 
community charettes, which is a major part of the urban design process at VMWP.  
Cheney is also well versed in 3-D modeling (Sketch Up), which is another wonderful 
asset for urban design projects and a great tool for conveying ideas clearly and 
concisely to the client and the larger community.
 personal profile Much of Cheney’s graduate studies and research at the University of Oregon were 
based on the urban model and Transit Oriented Development.  This is a core passion 
of hers in the world of architecture and urban design and has also been her focus at 
VMWP.  Cheney looks forward to being a part of the next generation of architects 
who re-shape American cities.  Cheney has travelled extensively throughout Europe 
and studied abroad in Rome, Italy.  In North America, Cheney has studied urban 
design and planning in Portland [Oregon], Seattle, Sacramento, Vancouver, Honolulu, 
and Denver.  Cheney brings a great level of technical knowledge as well as creative 
design to VMWP.  Cheney is well versed in design and theory of architecture and 
urban design as well as technical and practical solutions.  She is passionate about 
the environment and incorporates this thinking in every step of the design process.  
Cheney just recently fulfilled all of the IDP credit requirements and looks forward to 
begin taking the ARE licensing exams to become a registered architect.  Cheney was 
recently Chair of the regional projects book committee that wrote a 130-page book 
titled Colorado Urbanizing: Experiencing New Urbanism for CNU 17 - the Congress 
for the New Urbanism’s 17th annual conference in Denver, June 10-13, 2009 and she 
currently sits on the Board of Directors for CNU-Colorado Chapter.
 
 puBliCations Co-author of Colorado Urbanizing: Experiencing New Urbanism
 exhiBitions Thesis project from University of Oregon was showcased at the 2006 National AIA 
Conference in Portland, OR.
	
 
  resumé
