Christopher Sensenig
Associate - Urban Designer
 PROFESSION  AICP Certified Planner
 EDUCATION n	 University of California, Berkeley; Master of Architecture
n	 University of California, Berkeley; Master of City Planning
n	 Washington University, St. Louis, MO;  B.A. - Architecture
 FIRM RESPONSIBILITIES As an Associate and Urban Designer at VMWP, Mr. Sensenig manages the day 
to day operations of the office and has worked on a variety of projects including 
street design, master plan development, zoning ordinance updates, and schematic 
on architecture projects.  Chris worked on the redevelopment of the Potrero Hill SF 
Housing Authority Site, The Warm Springs TOD Village, the Visitacion Valley-Schlage 
Lock TOD Master Plan, the Leland Avenue Streetscape in San Francisco, Compton 
Avenue Streetscape and Downtown Plan in Compton, CA, the redevelopment of 
shopping centers in Milpitas, CA and Westminster, CO, the Mountain View ECR 
Precise Plan, and the Pedestrian and Transit Oriented Development Zoning Overlay 
District for City of Palo Alto.  
 PERSONAL PROFILE Christopher Sensenig is a passionate designer dedicated to making meaningful 
places.  Chris has been working on urban freeway removal in Oakland through 
starting Connect Oakland: A Vision to Reconnect Neighborhoods and Connect Cities 
that is developing concept plans to reinvision the 980 freeway as a multi-way 
boulevard.  As a graduate student at Cal, Chris focused his research on creating 
livable neighborhoods and increasing opportunities for participation and social 
interaction in the neighborhood landscape through projects that include street design, 
mixed-use multi-family housing, transit oriented development, and neighborhood 
planning.  Chris had ample opportunity for work on international projects, as a 
resident at the International Laboratory for Architecture and Urban Design he worked 
on a plan for the mainland coast of the Venice lagoon and in Taipei, Taiwan he 
worked on a neighborhood plan for the  Shilin Night Market District. Prior to VMWP, 
Chris worked under Donlyn Lyndon as assistant to the editor for PLACES, A Forum for 
Environmental Design.  Chris lectures at Cal, teaching ‘Sketch-Up for Planners’ in the 
Department of City and Regional Planning.
 PUBLICATIONS n “Stretching the M.Arch,”  arcCA, 08.1
n “The Ferry Building,” PLACES, Vol. 19:3, 2007
n “Willamette River Water Treatment Plant,” PLACES, Vol. 16:3, 2004
n "Outdoor Classrooms at Eib's Pond and Roy Wilkens Parks," PLACES, Vol. 15:3
n HOK Guidebook to Sustainable Design (illustrations)
 AWARDS n Chester Miller Research Fellowship, UC Berkeley Architecture
n Resident, International Laboratory for Architecture and Urban Design, Venice, Italy
	 
	 LECTURES Lecturer, Department of City and Regional Planning, UC Berkeley
  RESUMÉ
