david d. brown
 Architect
 profession n	 Architect, Licensed in the States of California and Georgia
n	 Former Board Member Hearth Homes Community Building
n	 Former Chairperson AIA SF Architects in Real Estate Committee
n	 Volunteer, First Place for Youth, Oakland, CA
 education n	 Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY; Bachelor of Architecture 1993
n	 Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, NY; BS Building Science 1992
 
 firm responsibilities David is an Associate and Sr. Project Architect and is responsible for leading project 
consultants and in-house teams from conceptual design through construction 
administration.  Besides leading some of VMWP’s larger projects, his design 
sensibilities coupled with strong technical and construction experience make him 
a valuable mentor and staff resource. David’s recent projects include: St Joseph’s 
Family and Senior Housing, a $37 million, multi-phase 146 unit affordable rental 
historic rehab project in Oakland, and Valencia Gardens Hope VI, a $50 million, 162 
unit redevelopment project in SF.
 personal profile David is a licensed Architect in CA and GA with over 20 years experience in the field 
including principal of his own firm prior to joining VMWP. He has contributed to the 
successful completion of award winning projects throughout the greater Atlanta and 
San Francisco Bay Area regions. As a Senior Project Architect at VMWP, David has 
focused on mixed-use urban infill projects providing affordable housing to the social 
economic demographic most in need. David is an affordable housing advocate with 
an avid interest in sustainable design, and in particular, recycling of older buildings 
through adaptive renovation. His past projects include a national park visitor center, 
state park lodge, golf course clubhouses, new retail warehouses and industrial office 
spaces, conversion of an historic high school and multiple warehouses into loft 
apartments, a retail space conversion to restaurant, high rise condominiums, custom 
single family residences, clustered town house units, large mixed-use urban infill 
projects and affordable housing.
 exhibitions Southeast Center for Contemporary Architecture - Home House [Prefab] Competition 
	
 awards n Oakland Heritage Alliance Historic Preservation Award
  n	 AIA National HUD Secretary Community Connection Award - Valencia Gardens
n AIA San Francisco - Special Commendation Award - Valencia Gardens
n SF Business Times - Affordable Housing Project of the Year - Valencia Gardens
n San Jose Business Times, Development of the Year - Nueva Vista Family Housing
n GA AIA Award of Excellence 1998 - Historic Muse’s Bldg. Loft Conversion
n Atlanta Urban Design Award of Excellence - Historic Muse’s Bldg. Loft Conversion
	
	 competitions n		 National Green Design Competition - El Paso - Finalist 
n		 David Brower - Palicades Glacier Mountain Hut Competition
n		 Habitat For Humanity Georgia - Prefabricated Home Competition
associate  resumé
