Georgina Santiago 
35 Lee St. Apt. 3 Cambridge, MA 02139/617-555-2212/gsantiago@post.harvard.edu 
EDUCATION 
Harvard University Extension School        Cambridge, MA
          May 2016      Bachelor of Liberal Arts, Field of Study Economics
Cum Laude, Dean’s List, GPA 3.62   
Worked up to 40+ hours a week to defray cost of tuition 
EXPERIENCE
Hangtime Wholesale Wine Company      Boston, MA  
Sales Representative    2013-present 
Opened and maintain 40 accounts in the greater Boston area.  Conduct in-store tastings and staff 
trainings to generate greater revenue.  Create and distribute promotional materials.  
Christie’s Auction House New York, NY 
Intern, Fine and Rare Wine Department     2013   
Performed pre-and post-sale statistical analysis.  Researched and executed mass mailing in order 
to generate new consignments. Researched potential domestic clients for annual Hospice de 
Beaune Auction.  Generated contracts for consignors.  Served as front-line contact for both 
existing clients and potential consignors, handling incoming and outgoing correspondence.  
Compiled and entered tasting notes for auction catalogue.   
Montagna Bar and Restaurant             Aspen, CO  
Back-Server, Cocktail Server, Food-Runner    2013  
Active participant in wine program, including weekly blind-tastings.  Created suitable beverage 
pairing for patrons.    
Shay’s Pub and Wine Bar     Cambridge, MA  
Server, Bartender, Floor Manager  2006-2013 
Coordinated and promoted weekly specials to generate optimal revenue.  Participated in 
development, expansion and improvement of wine program.  Recruited and trained all floor 
staff. Increased overall restaurant sales by 75%.  
The Second Glass   Boston, MA  
Staff Writer   2011-2013
Launched premier issue of print and online wine magazine.  Increased public visibility through 
participation in wine related events.  Provided up to three articles per print issue and once weekly 
for online issue.  Conducted research and interviews for articles.   
Certifications:  Court of Master Sommeliers: Introductory Course  
 WSET Level 3 Advanced Certificate in Wine and Spirits (Pass with Merit) 
    Paris Chamber of Commerce and Industry Diploma in Business French 
    Member, Boston Sommelier Society      
Volunteer:       Domaine Carrett Bully, France 2013: Vineyard and Cellar Management       
Ovid Vineyards, St Helena, California 2013: Office and Events Support       
Sample Resume
