SANJAY GOPAL 
75 Smith Lane  Billerica, MA 01821  978-555-9999   Sanjaygopal@gmail.com 
Project Director 
A results oriented Project Director with extensive leadership experience in highly competitive IT and Telecom 
industry.  Proven track record of leading and managing multi-million dollar international programs across northern 
Europe, Middle-East, North America and South America.  
Specialize in launching new services and products from concept to roll-out and building organizations from 
ground up. Expertise in improving team performance while securing customer loyalty and forging valuable 
relationships with internal and external partners.  
Core Competencies 
Project/Operations Management        Leadership P&L Management 
Strategic Planning     Building organizations Risk Management 
Client Management & Retention        Negotiations          Business development 
Professional Experience 
Comyerse Inc., USA       Oct 2007 - Present  
The world's leading provider of Telecom software and systems 
 Project Director / Consulting Program Manager, Boston / London / Dubai 
Delivered 30+ Projects and Programs within agreed budget, time and quality for telecom operators in North 
America, South America, northern Europe and Middle East region. Planned & supervised “concept to 
launch” for enterprise software systems, system integration projects for telecom operators in voice, data & 
billing domains. Prepared service proposals, RFP responses & worked closely with sales groups to secure 
new business.   
 Accomplishments: 
 Delivered 30+ projects valued 80+ Million USD, on-time, within budget with team of up to 100 people
for Verizon Wireless, Sprint, Bell Canada (North American clients), America-Movil, Millicom (South 
American clients), Vodafone, Orange, (European Clients), Q-Tel and Etisalat (Middle Eastern clients). 
 Introduced Visual Voice Mail services for Verizon wireless nationwide in aggressive schedule with
team of 100+ professionals. 
 Managed launch of first Ring Back tone project for Sprint within very demanding timeframe.
Comverse was awarded multiple expansions based on success of project. 
 Coordinated very competitive trials for multiple services for Bell Canada and won the contract.
 Launched a globally distributed ring back tone service for Orange Global in UK, France and Belgium.
Team consisted of 100+ team members including Sub-contractor (Cap-Gemini).
 Introduced new product lines across North America, Europe and Latin America.
 Built and managed Comyerse (Middle East) organization from scratch to team of 4 Project managers and
13 Engineers.
Sample Resume
Sanjay Gopal [2] 
 
 
Atlas Telecommunications, UAE            April 2006 - Sept 2007  
Leading telecomm solution & system supplier, based in UAE 
Business Development Manager, Abu-Dhabi 
Marketed and sold telecommunication systems for Telecom, Defense, Oil and gas companies. Managed 
contract negotiations, RFI /RFP responses and project agreements. 
Accomplishments: 
 Exceeded the sales target for 2002 and 2003 by 25% (3.6 Million USD).
 Successfully introduced and won projects for Mera systems, Scientific South and Comyerse Inc.
Facile Call Paging, India                 June 2004 - March 2006 
Largest & most innovative paging service provider in India 
Sr. Manager (Projects & Operations), New Delhi 
Launched first green field paging network across north India. Managed operations and customer support 
with team of 9 engineers and 70 customer care agents. 
Accomplishments: 
 Built Facile Call technical organization from ground up across 7 locations in India.
 Member of core team to bid nationwide spectrum auctions and vendor selection.
 Launched and managed green field paging services across major cities in demanding time scales.
Education 
Harvard University Extension School, Master of Liberal Arts, Management, Expected May 2017 
Regional Engineering College, Surat, India, Bachelor of Engineering, May 2004 Project 
Management Institute (PMI), Professional Certification: PMP   
Sample Resume (page 2)
