68 Winbourne Road 
Rochester, New York 14611 
(585) 235-1641 
dxlpph@rit.edu 
Dan Larkin  MFA 
 
 
EDUCATION 
 
Bard College  
Milton Avery Graduate School of the Arts, Annandale-On-Hudson, New York 
 
1994 Master of Fine Arts   Photography 
 
Rochester Institute of Technology 
School of Photographic Arts and Sciences, Rochester, New York 
 
1983 Bachelor of Fine Arts   Professional Photographic Illustration 
1981 Associate of Applied Science   Professional Photographic Illustration 
 
PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE 
 
Rochester Institute of Technology Rochester, New York 
College of Imaging Arts and Sciences 
School of Photographic Arts and Sciences  
 
September 1998 - May 2001 Visiting Assistant Professor 
September 2001 - Present  Assistant Professor 
 
Full time, tenure-track faculty appointment in the Photographic Arts department. 
Graduate and undergraduate education in the Imaging Arts, Advertising, Fine Art, 
Photojournalism and Visual Media areas of concentration. Courses taught include: 
 
Photography Core - MFA 1st year required one-quarter course 
Engagement in a rigorous group critique process to develop a mature body of work 
that combines experimental and analytical learning methods. The development of 
aesthetic and technical strategies for the production and presentation of artwork, 
movement through independent theoretical research in contemporary art concepts 
and methodologies which inform practice.  
 
 2 
Photography Workshop - MFA one-quarter elective 
One-on-one critique engagement and instruction with first and second year 
graduate students. Discussion of personal work is extended and can be challenged 
in ways outside the traditional classroom experience. Often involves mentorship 
and the development of a relationship that helps form a thesis committee. 
Research and Thesis - MFA 2nd year required course 
The thesis is designed and proposed by the candidate to a committee of graduate 
faculty. It is considered the culminating experience in the program, involving the 
development of independent research leading to new work. There are three 
components: the thesis exhibition, the thesis paper, and the public defense. The 
defense is for both the paper and the exhibit. This involves mentorship and often 
includes chairing the thesis committee. 
 
Digital Diary - one-quarter 3rd and 4th year elective 
A creative exploration of digital imaging in making a visual account of personal 
experience. The course encourages and reinforces the necessity of daily 
involvement with a personal photographic project. Emphasis is placed on the 
production of serial imagery that offers an opportunity for a conceptual and often 
narrative complexity rarely found in a single picture.  
 
Photo as a Fine Art I and II - required 3rd / 4th year Fine Art courses  
Emphasis is on the student's objectives, self-motivated projects and expansion of 
work. Experiences are oriented to encourage awareness of shared concepts in the 
other arts, the discipline involved and goals set by working artists, and the 
relevance of the history of the visual arts to the student's work. 
 
Color Photo Workshop - one-quarter 3rd and 4th year elective 
An exploration of the creative and aesthetic aspects of color photography and 
traditional darkroom printing. With self-direction, faculty guidance and group 
critiques, students produce a personal portfolio of work each quarter. 
 
Digital Photo Workshop - one-quarter 3rd and 4th year elective 
An exploration of the basics of hybrid technology between traditional film-based 
photography and digital imaging. The application of creative photography through 
assignments that explore technique and emphasize craft. Advanced class with an 
opportunity to refine skills necessary to work with film and digital imagery in an 
effective workflow from capture through to output.  
 
Photo Arts 6 - required 2nd year course for all BFA majors 
A refinement of the technical and aesthetic skills learned in the previous quarters 
of Photo Arts 1 - 5 and the application of this knowledge towards a specific genre 
of photography. This specific class was an introduction to conceptual and 
theoretical concerns as they relate to portraiture.  
 3 
 
Photo Arts 5 - required 2nd year course for all BFA majors 
Further experience in each of the major areas of concentration within the 
department to ensure that students are aware of all the tools available to make 
technically proficient and conceptually strong photographs.  
 
Applied Photo I - required 1st year three quarter course 
The foundation for study within the BFA major. Application of basic techniques 
with light sensitive materials with an introduction to digital imaging. The 
curriculum emphasizes both craft and visual problem solving. This course 
emphasizes training in technique and in the self-discipline required for a successful 
career. A major part of the course focuses on the development of critical skills 
towards the student’s own work as well as that of others. The student gains 
general experience in the three main areas of degree concentration – advertising, 
fine art and photojournalism.  
 
Additional Responsibilities: 
 
Advising 
Council approximately 25 undergraduates on a regular basis regarding academic 
and career planning, informal tutorial, critique, mentorship and guidance for 
creative projects. 
Faculty Advisor to Photo House (a special interest student residence area): 
guidance on fund-raising, community building and related outreach activities. 
MFA events include open houses, portfolio evaluations for perspective students 
and applicants and participation in the quarterly Walkthrough Reviews. 
 
Photo One Coordinator 
Direction of eight sections of Applied Photo I from 2000 – 2005: revision, 
expansion, and delivery of a comprehensive curriculum through a yearlong 3-
quarter sequence. Training and mentoring new faculty, student advising and 
holding regular faculty meetings to facilitate problem solving and discuss potential 
modifications and facility needs. Organization of group lectures and the 
restructure of course scheduling to make classes run more efficiently. 
 
Committee Work  
Middle States Review Task Force: college-wide team in preparation for the 
upcoming appraisal for reaccreditation. 
Charles Arnold Lecture Committee: series that hosts several prominent image-
makers and image thinkers yearly. 
Student Honors Show: annual faculty-judged exhibition of student work. 
SPAS and CIAS Curriculum Committees: school and college committees that 
oversee the formation and revision of new and existing courses.  
 4 
 
 
Cape Cod Photo Workshops  Eastham, Massachusetts 
1998 – 2004 
A series of hands-on weeklong intensive summer instruction. Workshops taught included: 
Understanding Color, The Portrait, Photographing the Cape Cod Landscape, Light, Wind 
and Water and The Digital Camera. 
 
 
University of Miami    Coral Gables, Florida 
College of Arts and Sciences  
September 1996 - June1998 
Lecturer in Photography and Digital Imaging, a two-year appointment in the Department 
of Art and Art History. Photographic Facilities Manager. 
 
Courses taught: Introduction and Intermediate B & W Photography, Color Photography, 
Introduction and Intermediate Digital Photography. Additional involvement with MFA 
students including independent study, thesis committees and as faculty advisor for the 
annual graduate exhibition in the Lowe Art Museum.  
Facilities Manager accomplishments included a reorganization and the implementation of 
a check-out system as well as training and supervision of student employees. 
 
 
Miami-Dade Community College  Kendall, Florida 
Art Department 
September – December 1997 
Adjunct Instructor; Introduction to Photography  
 
 
Rochester Institute of Technology Rochester, New York 
College of Imaging Arts and Sciences 
School of Photographic Arts and Sciences  
March 1989 - May 1996 
Adjunct Instructor / Visiting Instructor / Visiting Assistant Professor 
One-year (sabbatical replacement) appointments and/or adjunct instruction in the 
Applied Photography Department. Courses taught included: Applied Photo I, Intro to 
Color, Intro to Electronic Imaging, Creative Problems and Non-Traditional Photo 
Illustration. 
 
 5 
 
Dan Larkin Photography   Provincetown, Massachusetts 
1986 - 1990 
Self-employed in the summers as a commercial photographer; freelance work included 
portraiture, illustration, advertising, public relations, wedding, and copy-work for artists. 
Clients included Reginald W. Cabral, Cape Cod Life, Long Point Gallery, Northern Lights 
Leather, Orleans Carpenters, Outside Magazine and the Provincetown Pilgrim Monument 
and Museum. 
 
 
Cape Light     Orleans, Massachusetts 
1984 - 1990  
Custom Photographic Laboratory Technician 
Responsibilities included chromogenic color printing for reproduction, fine art exhibition 
and commercial applications, sink/line film processing, and the production of 
internegatives. Clients included Marie Cosindas, Jim Dow, Gregory Heisler, Joel 
Meyerowitz, Stephen Shore and Aaron Siskind. 
 
 
EXHIBITIONS 
 
Solo Shows 
2006  Photographs 1995 - 2005 
  Visual Studies Workshop, Rochester, New York 
 
2005  A Cape Cod Diary 
  BookArts Gallery, University of the Arts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
 
2003  Cottage Fever 
  A Satellite Exhibition of the Rochester Contemporary 
  Windows on Rochester, Sibley Centre, Rochester, New York 
 
2001  Excerpts from a Cape Cod Diary 
  Art and Music Library, University of Rochester, Rochester, New York 
 
1995  The Migrant Teacher Clearance Sale 
  Studio 14605, Rochester, New York 
 
1994  Vegetables Fruits and Maybe Candy 
  Gallerie Europa, Geneva, Switzerland 
 6 
 
1992  Carnival 
  Hell’s Kitchen Gallery, Provincetown, Massachusetts 
 
1990  Water Music 
  Community Darkroom, Rochester, New York 
 
1986  Hecho En Mexico 
  Exposure, Orleans, Massachusetts 
 
1985  Photographs from the Cape Tip 
  Clear Light the Gallery at Cornerstone, Waltham, Massachusetts 
 
1984  Color Portraits 
  28 Arlington, Rochester, New York 
 
Selected Two Person and Group Shows 
 
2006  Old Cape Cod  -  Kehler-Liddel Gallery, New Haven, Connecticut 
  SPAS Faculty Show  - SPAS Gallery RIT, Rochester, New York 
 
2005  Image Art  -  Cascade Center for the Arts, Rochester, New York 
Appendix  -  Rochester Contemporary, Rochester, New York 
  SPAS Faculty Show  - SPAS Gallery RIT, Rochester, New York 
 
2004  Dialogues  –  Rochester Contemporary, Rochester, New York 
  SPAS Faculty Show  - SPAS Gallery RIT, Rochester, New York 
   
2003  SPAS 100 Year Anniversary Alumni Show  -  RIT, Rochester, New York 
  No Place Like Home  -  Rochester Contemporary, Rochester, New York 
Image Art  - Visual Studies Workshop, Rochester, New York 
  SPAS Faculty Show  - SPAS Gallery RIT, Rochester, New York 
   
2002  Picturing What Matters  -  George Eastman House, Rochester, New York 
SPAS Faculty Show  - SPAS Gallery RIT, Rochester, New York 
 
2001  Gift  -  Visual Studies Workshop, Rochester, New York 
  Vision X 21  -  William Marten Gallery, Rochester, New York 
  SPAS Faculty Show  - SPAS Gallery RIT, Rochester, New York 
   
2000  SPAS Faculty Show  - SPAS Gallery RIT, Rochester, New York 
 
 7 
1999  Upstate Invitational  -  Pyramid Art Center, Rochester, New York  
  SPAS Faculty Show  - SPAS Gallery RIT, Rochester, New York 
 
1998  Bad Love/Cold Coffee/Real Life  -  Pyramid Art Center, Rochester, New York  
 
1997  The Narrative Spirit  - Dunedin Fine Arts Center, Dunedin, Florida 
 
1995  Intimacy in a Field of Aperture  -  Thomson Gallery, Minneapolis, Minnesota 
  SPAS Faculty Show  - SPAS Gallery RIT, Rochester, New York 
 
1994  Finger Lakes Exhibition  -  Memorial Art Gallery, Rochester, New York 
  SPAS Faculty Show  - SPAS Gallery RIT, Rochester, New York 
 
 
LECTURES 
 
Rochester Institute of Technology 
September 2006 
Lecture: Critique Survival with Professor Adrienne Carageorge to incoming SPAS/SOFA 
freshmen 
 
Rochester Institute of Technology 
May 2006  
Artist Lecture on personal “webcam” work for Dr. Timothy Engström and Dr. Evan 
Selinger’s class Philosophy of Vision and Imaging 
 
Kehler-Liddell Gallery, New Haven, Connecticut 
April 2006 
Artist Lecture - Old Cape Cod 
 
Rochester Institute of Technology 
September 2005 
Lecture: Critique Survival with Professor Cat Ashworth to incoming SPAS/SOFA 
freshmen 
 
University of the Arts, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 
April 2005 
Artists Lecture: Cape Cod Diary 
Rochester Institute of Technology 
September 2004 
Lecture: Critique Survival with Professor Adrianne Carageorge to incoming SPAS/SOFA 
freshmen 
 8 
 
Rochester Contemporary, Rochester, New York 
March 2003 
Artists Lecture: Cottage Fever 
 
Rochester Institute of Technology  
April 2002 
Lecture for NTID Core Interpreters Team on basic photographic terminology 
 
William Marten Gallery, Rochester, New York 
February 2001 
Panel artist’s discussion related to the exhibition 21 Photographers 
 
 
AWARDS, ACHIEVEMENTS AND GRANTS 
 
Rochester Institute of Technology  
October 2006 
Fifteen years of service to RIT 
 
Rochester Institute of Technology 
December 2005 
Nominated for the Eisenhart Outstanding Teacher Award  
 
Rochester Institute of Technology 
November 2005 
Awarded Certificate “For commitment to equal access, and for demonstrating awareness 
and sensitivity in the course of serving RIT students with disabilities” 
 
Rochester Institute of Technology 
December 2004 
Nominated for the Eisenhart Outstanding Teacher Award  
 
Rochester Institute of Technology  
December 2004 
Awarded FEAD grant: Fine Art Digital Printing with the Epson 2200  
 
March 2004 
Nominated for Who’s Who Among America’s Teachers 
Rochester Institute of Technology 
December 2003 
Nominated for the Eisenhart Outstanding Teacher Award  
 9 
 
Rochester Institute of Technology  
December 2002 
Nominated for the Eisenhart Outstanding Teacher Award  
 
Rochester Institute of Technology  
May 2002 
Awarded FEAD grant for Color Management 
 
Rochester Institute of Technology  
December 2001 
Nominated for the Eisenhart Outstanding Teacher Award  
 
Rochester Institute of Technology  
October 2001 
Ten years of service to RIT 
 
Arts and Cultural Council of Rochester 
July 2001 
Awarded a Special Opportunity Stipend to support my exhibition Excerpts from a Cape 
Cod Diary at the University of Rochester 
 
 
PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITIES 
 
Rochester Institute of Technology 
April 2006  
Faculty judge of Biomedical Photo Communications student work for Curriculum Vitae 
an eventual exhibit at Image City Gallery, Rochester, New York 
 
Rochester Institute of Technology 
March 2006  
Moderator for Point A to B: Practical Seminars for those Entering the Creative Biz 
 
Society for Photographic Education Annual Conference; Chicago, Illinois 
March 2006   
Portfolio reviewer  
 
Rochester Institute of Technology 
January 2006 
Faculty Judge for the Profoto / MAC Group Shootout Contest 
 
 10 
PhotoPlus Expo; Jacob Javits Convention Center, New York City 
November 2005   
Staffed the RIT/ SPAS booth; networking with alumni, manufacturers and prospective 
students  
 
Door 7 Artist’s Co-Op and Experimental Gallery, Rochester, New York 
March 2005 
Judge for juried exhibition 
 
Rochester Institute of Technology 
December 2004 
Faculty Judge for the Profoto / MAC Group Shootout Contest 
Rochester Institute of Technology 
April 2004 
Consultation with Kari Hororwitz, Art and Photography Librarian at Wallace Library to 
investigate resources (specifically ARTSTOR, the new visual picture catalog) that 
provide imagery for both student and faculty presentations  
 
Rochester Institute of Technology 
November 2003 
Hosted RIT/SPAS Open House (along with Professor Myra Greene) for prospective 
students and parents; portfolio reviews 
 
Rochester Institute of Technology 
April 2003 
Art Direction for the SPAS 100th year anniversary celebration poster; a collaboration with 
Professor Therese Hannigan (Graphic Design) and Ben Peterson (Advertising 
Photography student) 
 
Rochester Institute of Technology 
January 2003 
Faculty judge for the Scholastic Art Competition 
 
November 2002 
Reviewed Robert Hirsch’s Exploring Color Photography prior to revisions for the fourth 
edition for McGraw-Hill publishers. 
 
Pyramid Art Center, Rochester, New York 
2001 
Artist’s Advisory Board; in the search for a new, permanent home for the organization 
which eventually became Rochester Contemporary at 137 East Avenue 
 
 
 11 
 
 
 
