Lauren Daley
Architect
 PROFESSION n	 Architect, Licensed in the State of California 
   and the State of Colorado
 EDUCATION n	 University of California, Berkeley; Master of Architecture, 2008
n	 University of Florida; Bachelor of Design in Architecure, 2003
 FIRM RESPONSIBILITIES Project Architect overseeing Multi-family Housing projects from Schematic Design 
through Construction Administration.  Lauren is currently working as the Project 
Architect and leading construction administration on 15888 Hesperian, a 77-unit 
affordable senior housing project. She also served as the Job Captain on 2175 Market 
Street, an 88-unit mixed-use market rate development that earned LEED Platinum.  
Lauren is responsible for a full range of tasks at VMWP including construction 
document preparation, construction administration, project team coordination and 
management, code analysis, and developing office BIM/CAD standards.
 PERSONAL PROFILE Lauren, a licensed California and Colorado architect, joined VMWP in 2012.   Lauren’s 
undergraduate education at the University of Florida was focused on the art of making 
and the sensory experience of space.  In graduate school at UC Berkeley, Lauren 
focused heavily on the environmental and social aspects of the design profession.  
Lauren’s studies took her abroad to Vicenza, Italy where she first lived in an urban 
environment.  She attributes that life changing experience to her current focus on 
transit-oriented development, healthy environments, and sustainable design.  
  Lauren’s rich architectural experience includes:  multi-family housing, student 
housing, affordable housing, senior housing, single-family residential, restaurant, 
straw bale, and environmentally progressive design.  While in California, Lauren 
worked as a community leader serving as a Hayes Valley Neighborhood Association 
Board Member.  She also volunteered for the San Francisco Bicycle Coalition and at 
various community gardens throughout the Bay Area.   In her off hours, Lauren enjoys 
making lamps, playing her guitar, riding her bike, cooking, and spending time with her 
family.  
 PARTIAL PROJECT LIST n	 Urban Housing:  2175 Market Street, San Francisco, CA; The Kirkham Project, San 
Francisco, CA; Avalon Ocean Avenue, San Francisco, CA
	 	 n	 Senior Affordable Housing:  The Arbor at Hesperian, San Lorenzo, CA; Richardson 
Hall, San Francisco, CA
	 	 n	 Student Housing Housing:  The Summits at UC Merced, Merced, CA
 TEACHING n	 Graduate Student Instructor, UC Berkeley, California, 2008 
  RESUMÉ
