Matthew Baker
Project Manager / Designer  
 profession BAYA - Bay Area Young Architects 
 education California College of Arts and Crafts, Bachelor of Architecture, 1996
 
 firM responsiBilities As a Project Manager at VMWP, Matthew oversees a project from initial conception 
to completed construction. He is involved in feasibility studies, project competition 
proposals, and schematic design, as well as coordinating the construction 
documentation and construction phases. He works closely with clients, consultants, 
engineers, and city staff to ensure that every project meets the needs of not only the 
owner and new residents, but also the city and neighbors.
 personal profile Matthew Baker has been a member of the design team at VMWP since 1999. Prior 
to joining VMWP he gained a wide range of experience in architectural practice, by 
working for such firms as SMWM and Arquitectonica. Matthew received a BArch 
degree from the California College of the Arts (formally CCAC) in 1996.
 
  His project experience at VMWP has included working as a Project Manager on 
Bella Monte Apartments in Bay Point, CA and Rivertown Place II in Antioch, CA. 
Bella Monte consist of 49 multifamily units of affordable housing on 2.3 acres in four 
buildings divided in plan and elevation that present a rhythm of two and three-story 
sections with two and three-bedroom townhouses on upper floors above ground floor 
one and two-bedroom flats. Rivertown Place has 40 units of affordable housing. The 
apartments, primarily town-homes with a few flats, include 10-one bedroom, 18-two 
bedroom, and 12-three bedroom units ranging in size from 609 sq.ft. to 1,136 sq.ft..
  As a job captain, Matthew has worked on Piedmont Avenue Lofts in Oakland, CA, 19 
townhouse units of market rate housing and Adams Avenue Homes in Fremont, CA, 
17 small lot single family homes for first time home buyers.
  Matthew also worked on the Friends of Children with Special Needs Center and 
Peralta Dream residential community in Fremont. The project combines 10 units of 
housing with 6,000 sq.ft. community center facilities.
 awards n Charles L. Edson Award, Honorable Mention, West Rivertown Phase II 2008
n California Redevelopment Agency, Community Revitalization, Bella Monte 2007
n California Redevelopment Agency, Award of Excellence, Bella Monte Apartments 2004
  
  resuMé
