MCA Fresher Resume
 Contributed by Administrator
Friday, 02 November 2007
Last Updated Friday, 30 July 2010
Menaka Shahi
B-312,Vallabh  Vihar,
Sector-46,
Gurgaon-122003
Haryana,India
Email: menaka254@gmail.com
Phone: 9847241138
Objective
Seeking a position of Programmer/Developer in the field of IT where fresh talent will add value to operations and utilize
my skills and abilities. Technical Summary
Areas of expertise:     Oracle 9i, SQL Server,.NET(ASP.NET, C#)
Sound Knowledge of:    C, C++, Java
 - Undertaken project dealing with data processing & Application development. Developed a project for Punjab National
Bank IIT, as part of M.C.A Course on Oracle IDS using Oracle 9i.
 - Worked on developing a web-site for Marc Solution, using ASP.net with C# language and SQL Server.
Academic QualificationS.NoDegree School/College/University Year of Passing Percentage/Division  1 M.C.A U.P.Technical
University, Lucknow 2007 71% 2 B.C.A B.R.Ambedkar University, Agra 2004 77% 3 12th Girls&rsquo; High School,
Allahabad 2001 60% 4 10th Girls&rsquo; High School, Allahabad 1999 68% Skills Profile
1    Programming Languages: .NET (ASP.NET, C#), C, C++, Java
2    Web Development: HTML, JavaScript, VBScript, ASP.net and ASP.
3    Operating Systems: Windows (98, 2000, NT, XP), UNIX.
4    Graphic Packages: Macromedia Dreamweaver.
5    Databases: Oracle - 7.3, 8i& 9i, Microsoft SQL Server 2000, MS Access.
6    Backup & Restore Application: IBM Tivoli Storage Manager Express.Projects:
The details of the various projects in chronological order: 
1.    Project Title        : Online job search
       Organization       : Marc Solution
       Duration       : 6 months
       Tools used       : ASP.NET with C#, SQL Server2000 and Dreamweaver for designing.
Project Description:
This project involved building up a Job Portal for Marc Solutions which catered to both applicants and recruiters. Involved
in developing a Web based Application which would enable Job seekers get automated mail information about available
Job openings with Recruiters based on their skill set.
Responsibility:  I worked on designing of database using SQL server and also involved in GUI development.
2.    Project Title        : Out-Station Claim Management
Organization       : Punjab National Bank Institute of Information Technology
Duration       : 6 months
Tools used       : Oracle 9i, Oracle IDS
Project Description:
An application developed with Punjab National Bank IIT for receiving the claim details of employee and gives their total
claim. Generate monthly reports for the management.
Responsibility: I was involved in Database and dataflow designing and Application Development.
3.    Project Title        : Mobile Phones Services tracking System 
Organization       : Reliance Infocomm, Lucknow
Career Drive India
http://careerdrive.co.in Powered by Joomla! Generated: 4 January, 2011, 08:09
Duration       : 2 months
Tools used       : Visual Basic 6.0, MSAcces
    
Project Description:
An application developed for multitech services.
Responsibility: I was involved in Structural Analysis and also worked as GUI Developer, Application Developer and
Database Designer.
4.    Project Title        : Inventory Management of Prepaid Mobile
Duration       : 4 months
Tools used       : Visual Basic 6.0, MSAcces
Project Description:
A scalable employment portal with ease of use and many flexible operations. 
The Team consisted of 6 members and the project was developed as part of MCA curriculum.
Responsibility: My responsibilities included working as Designing, GUI Developer and Application Developer. 
5.    Project Title        : B.C.A Project - HR Requisition Management
Organization       : Reliance Infocomm, Lucknow
Duration       : 6 months
Tools used       : Visual Basic 6.0 , MSAcces
Project Description:
A data processing application to receive the request of employee and to manage them.
VB 6.0 was used as a front-end and Microsoft Access as database.
Responsibility: My responsibilities included working as GUI Developer and Application Developer.Extra Curricular
Activities:
 - Seminars delivered on DNA Computing, Data Warehousing in IT Scenario and Communication skills.
 - Participated in several State level Basketball matches.
 - Held the position of Vice Captain in my school/college.
 - Participated in college and school level debate and essay competition and received applauds.
 - Captain of school basketball team.
 - Event organizer in all school and college annual day functions and other technical events.
Personal Summary:
Date of Birth: 26/04/1983    Languages Known: Hindi, and EnglishReferences:
1.    Mr. Praneeth Meduko, Associate Technology L1, Sapient Bangalore.                                                                  (Employee No: 002222)(Email:
pmedukon@sapient.com).
2.    Mr. Abhinav Shahini, ERP-SAP Consultant, Phase V,TCS Gurgaon
 (Email:a.shahini@tcs.com)                                                                   (Menaka Shahi)
Career Drive India
http://careerdrive.co.in Powered by Joomla! Generated: 4 January, 2011, 08:09
