Michael Kloefkorn
Architect 
 profession n	 Architect, Licensed in the State of Colorado
n	 LEED Accredited Professional (Legacy)
n	 LEED for Homes Accredited Professional
n	 Certified Green Building Professional
n	 Certified GreenPoint Rater
n	 Technical Advisor Committee Member, Multi Family Green Building Guidelines
 education Cal Poly State University, San Luis Obispo, CA; B. Architecture, 1994
 firM responsibilities Associate oversight of multiple projects from feasibility & entitlement to schematic 
design through construction, firm wide sustainable design consulting, coordination 
and education for all project scales, building science development and alternative 
systems & materials research.
 personal profile As one of the senior associates at VMWP,  Mr. Kloefkorn brings a mixture of experi-
ence in California, Colorado and Australia including furniture, interior design, com-
mercial/retail, mixed-use, residential, multi-family residential, adaptive reuse and 
construction. He joined VMWP in 1998 and relocated to Colorado in 1999 to assist in 
establishing the new Denver office.  He has been involved in projects ranging from 
Belmar CO, to Valencia Gardens Hope VI, to Railyard Lofts (reuse), to affordable senior 
housing projects Cottonwood Court and Warner Creek and the Jewish Home SF and 
2175 Market St, SF.
  Mr. Kloefkorn specializes in sustainable urban architecture.  As the resource on 
sustainability at VMWP, he seeks to push the envelope on every project. An active 
chapter leader of the Northern California Chapter of the USGBC, he founded and 
chaired the Residential Green Building advocacy Committee.  
  Mr. Kloefkorn is active, professionally and in the community, to promote better human 
environments while decreasing the human impact on the natural environment. He 
is an advocate for affordable housing and for moving our profession from green to 
sustainable to regenerative design.  In his spare time. Michael enjoys snowboarding, 
hiking, backpacking and flyfishing.
 publications n	 “Is LEED Certification Worth It?” Multifamily Trends, March 2008
	 	 n	 Certification of  Green Homes - SF Assoc. of Realtors, July 2008
	
 awards n	 AIA - Colorado Young Architect’s Award, Railyard Lofts 2008
	 	 n	 AIA - Colorado Architect’s Choice Award, Railyard Lofts 2007
n	 National AIA/HUD Housing Secretary’s Award, Valencia Gardens 2008
	 
	 lectures n  Housing California, Rehab of Pacific Meadows 2012
  n  Housing California, Green Affordable Housing Panelist, 2008 
n  Guest Lecturer; PGE PEC, USGBC-NCC, West Coast Green, AIA East bay, SJSU, 
Skyline college 2007-0212
  associate resuMé
