S t e f a n  P e t r a n e k  
 
78 Vermont Street Rochester, NY 14609     spetrane@yahoo.com     (585) 256 0296     www.stefanpetranek.com 
 
 
EDUCATION 
 
Rochester Institute of Technology, Rochester, NY 
Master of Fine Arts in Imaging Arts, 2006. 
Areas of interest: photography, video, and installation 
 
Fulbright Full Grant, Valdivia, Chile  
Marine ecology research at the Universidad Austral de Chile, 1999-2000. 
 
Bowdoin College, Brunswick, ME 
A.B. Biology, minor in Chemistry, 1999.  
Graduated Suma Cum Laude with Honors in Biology. Phi Beta Kappa Society.  
 
State University of New York, Plattsburg, NY 
Study abroad coursework at Universidad Austral de Chile, Valdivia, Chile. Spring 1998 
 
PRESENTATIONS / PUBLICATIONS / SCHOLARSHIPS 
 
Tweaking the Periodic Table: Reflections on Science in Contempary Art. Lecture Presentation, 
Society of Photographic Education, National Conference, Denver, CO, March 2008 
 
Artist Talk.  Panel discussion for Naturally exhibition. Hartnett Gallery, University of Rochester. Nov. 8, 2007 
 
Draft Magazine. Page 26, Issue 3, Independent Student Art Publication. Rochester, NY, May 2006 
 
Knowledge, Visual Culture and the New Archive. Contributing photographer. Published by: Rochester 
Institute of Technology, Rochester, NY, 2005 
 
Graduate Student Presentation. SPE Mid-Atlantic Regional Conference, George Madison University, Fairfax, 
Virginia, November 11-12, 2005 
 
Graduate Student Scholarship, Society of Photographic Educators Mid-Atlantic Region, 2005 
 
Janie Moore Greene Grant. North American Nature Photography Association Infinity Foundation, 2005 
 
The Guy Charles Howard and the O’Brien Graduate Scholarships. Bowdoin College, 2004 
 
SELECTED EXHIBITIONS   (  designates solo exhibition ) 
 
2008   Toronto Urban Film Festival. Video work Spring selected by curator Brenda Longfellow 
to be included in Toronto’s mass transit video art festival. Toronto, CANADA. 
  
RIT Faculty Show. Video Projection. Rochester School of Photographic Arts and Sciences, 
Rochester Institute of Technology, SPAS Gallery, Rochester, NY.  
 
Slide Slam ‘08. Juried one-night exhibition scheduled for March 2008. Imagery selected 
from GO solo show proposals. Real Art Ways Gallery, Hartford, CT. 
 
2007   Naturally. Juried Four person exhibit displaying the formally and conceptually diverse 
engagements with nature projected by contemporary artists of Upstate New York. Hartnett 
Gallery, University of Rochester, Rochester, NY.  
 
30 Years of Eye Work. Invitational group show to commemorate anniversary of the 
Community Darkroom. Genesee Center for the Arts, Rochester, NY.  
 
Curriculum Vitae of Stefan Petranek 
Page 2 of 2 
 
  Toronto Urban Film Festival. Video: Streaks of Gravity selected to be exhibited at multiple 
locations including TV monitors in the mass transit system during the week of the festival. 
Toronto, CANADA.  
 
  PingYao International Photo Festival.  Book of Acts Properties of Tea represented at the 
annual international festival. Epson Gallery, Ping-Yao, CHINA.  
 
RIT Faculty Show. A selection of two handmade books picturing works from the Book of Acts 
series. Rochester Institute of Technology, SPAS Gallery, Rochester, NY.  
 
CONTACT Portfolio Reviews Exhibition. A selection of the best work presented at the 
reviews. Juried by the Contact portfolio reviewers. HP CONTACT Gallery, Toronto, CANADA.  
 
2006        Formulations. Master of Fine Arts thesis exhibition. SPAS Gallery, Rochester Institute of 
Technology, Rochester, NY. 
 
 RIT Student Honors Show. A exhibition juried by the faculty of the School of Photographic 
Arts and Sciences. Artwork purchased by Rochester Institute of Technology’s Admissions 
Office, SPAS Gallery, Rochester, NY.  
 
 Door7 Spring Exhibition. Invitational group show. Selected works from Book of Acts 
series displayed at 700 S. Clinton Ave. Gallery, Rochester, NY. 
 
 Trans fix. Invitational show of selected works by RIT graduate students, Fawick Art Gallery, 
Baldwin-Wallace College, Berea, Ohio.   
 
2005 Grad 123. A selection of current graduate student work from the MFA in Imaging Arts 
Program, SPAS Gallery, Rochester Institute of Technology, Rochester, NY.  
 
                Spanoscopic Visions. Community Darkroom Gallery, Genesee Center for the Arts, 
Rochester, NY.  
 
 Long Beach Island Foundation Annual Photography Show. Juried by Darsie 
Alexander: curator of prints, drawings, and photographs at the Baltimore Museum of Art. 
Loveladies, NJ.  
 
 RIT Student Honors Show. Show juried by faculty of the School of Photographic Arts and 
Sciences, SPAS Gallery, Rochester Institute of Technology, Rochester, NY.  
 
 Work In Progress: VSW & RIT. An invitational art exhibit showcasing recent work by RIT 
and Visual Studies Workshop graduate students. SPAS Gallery, Rochester Institute of 
Technology, Rochester, NY.  
 
 Breaking The Ice. A juried traveling exhibit showcasing the best of central New York student 
photography & video.  
 
Hartell Gallery, Cornell University (Ithaca, NY)  Feb 6-12 
Visual Studies Workshop (Rochester, NY)   Feb 19-25 
Spark Contemporary Art Space (Syracuse, NY)  Mar 1-5 
 
2004  City Wide Open Studios. An invitational art festival showcasing visual artists in Connecticut. 
Exhibiting Artist, Art Space Gallery, New Haven, CT.  
 
 Off the Wall:12. A photography exhibit and sale benefiting the Arts Council of Greater New 
Haven. New Haven, CT.  
 
 The Edge: a Fringe Festival. Invitational exhibit coinciding with the International Festival of 
Art and Ideas. Small Space Gallery, New Haven, CT.  
 
 Spectra. Photo Arts Collective Annual Members Show, North Haven, CT.  
 
2003 Photos on the Edge. A juried exhibition by the New Haven Photo Arts Collective. Green Hill 
Gallery, Yale School of Art, New Haven, CT.  
 
2001 Fall Show. Member’s invitational art exhibit, Creative Arts Workshop, New Haven, CT.  
