Rahul Mohare
Designer / Project Manager
 pRofession Architect, Licensed in India
 education n	 University of Colorado, Denver; Master of Architecture
n	 University of Pune, India; Bacelor of Architecture, 1997
 fiRM Responsibilities Rahul is currently the project manager for the Osage Courts, a multi-family apartment 
development located directly across the street from Lincoln Park in the culturally rich 
La Alma/Lincoln Park Neighborhood in Denver.  This transit-oriented development 
provides 185 market-rate rental units within walking distance of the 10th & Osage rail 
station. 
  Since joining Van Meter Williams Pollack in 2000, Rahul has been a project manager 
for tight urban in-fill multi-family housing projects such as Rail Yard Lofts & Rue 32. 
He has also been thoroughly involved in other mixed-use and multi-family projects 
such as Belmar Urban Apartments, Uptown Broadway, Fire Clay Lofts, Valencia 
Gardens, Bradburn Village, Arvada Town Center TOD, and many others.
  Rahul brings diverse experience to the firm ranging from mixed-use to multi-family 
residential and adaptive reuse, from building construction to furniture design and 
interior design. In addition to designer and project management roles at VMWP, He is 
also responsible for oversight of inter-office coordination, office CAD standards and IT 
management.
  Rahul works closely with clients, partners and jurisdictional agencies while 
overseeing multiple projects from design through construction.
 peRsonal pRofile Before coming to pursue his Masters in Architecture in Denver, CO; Rahul was a 
licensed Architect in India, working on different scales and types of projects. A few of 
his projects in India include: Renovation & Restoration of the Church Of Immaculate 
Conception, Design for Papal Seminary-Meditation Center and Interior design for 
numerous custom houses.
  Rahul travels every year to different countries/cities learning more about the 
architecture and enjoying the unique cultures and their influences on architecture 
around the world. In his spare time, he enjoys cooking different cuisines, traveling 
urban places and spending time with his very young family.
  He and his wife also spend most of his weekends sketching up ideas and renovating 
their 104 year old Denver brick bungalow.
 exhibitions U.C.D. Furniture Design exhibit, 1999
	
 awaRds n AIA Colorado Young Architects, 2008
   Award for 05.BA - Built Architecture - Rail Yard Lofts
n Deccan Award for Design Excellence, 1997 (Pune, India)
 Award for Renovation & Restoration of the Church Of Immaculate Conception
 
  ResuMé
