 14 
Sample Resume #2: Chronological Format; Study Abroad; Varied Experience 
Job Hunter 
XXX Park Avenue, New York, NY 10056 
(212) XXX-XXXX johunter@vassar.edu 
Education 
Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, NY 
Bachelor of Arts in Urban Studies/Economics Correlate   May 20xx 
Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Proficiency    
  
University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia 
Study Abroad Program in Urban Studies    Spring 20xx 
 
Work Experience 
Student Assistant to the Dean of the College, Vassar College (20xx-20xx) 
Acted as liaison between Dean and students, faculty, staff, and various committees. Launched long-term project to 
improve school’s environmental policy and practice. Organized and attended functions for the Board of Trustees. 
Hosting Intern, Vassar College Admissions Office (Fall 20xx) 
Planned and instituted Ambassador project facilitating recruitment by current students. Enlisted volunteers for Admissions 
Office programming. Coordinated host visits for prospective students. 
Administrative Intern, City Hall, Prairie Village, KS (Summer 20xx) 
Worked with Mayor and City Administrator on community relations and planning projects. Managed city-wide recreation 
program and 4th of July festivities. Prepared comprehensive report on area water parks for future construction. 
Customer Service Representative, Best Buy, Poughkeepsie, NY (20xx-20xx) 
Provided advice and personal attention to customers. Assisted with special promotions and membership programs. 
Organized merchandise and layout on sales floor. 
Development Representative, Vassar College Annual Fund (20xx-20xx) 
Supported the Office of Alumnae/i Affairs & Development in the execution of various fundraising projects. Communicated 
with alumnae/i about contributions to Vassar’s Annual Fund. Counseled new student staff members on procedures and 
protocol. 
 
Volunteer Experience 
Elementary School Mentor, P.E.A.C.E. Organization (20xx-20xx) 
Advisor/Counselor, Teens TAP AIDS Information Hotline (20xx-20xx) 
Workshop Coordinator, Vassar Equal Rights Awareness Day (20xx) 
 
Leadership Activities 
Chair, Urban Studies Majors Committee (20xx-20xx) 
Student Fellow, Vassar College Office of Residential Life (20xx-20xx) 
Scholar Delegate to Dean, College Review Committee (20xx-20xx) 
Class Executive Council (20xx-20xx) 
Class Representative, Committee on College Life (20xx-20xx) 
Vassar College Choir, featuring London and East Coast U.S. Tours (20xx-20xx) 
Vassar College Orchestra (first chair Violin) (20xx – 20xx) 
