 16 
SAMPLE RESUME #4: SENIOR; THESIS; CAMPUS LEADERSHIP EXPERIENCES  
 
Your Name Here 
yohere@vassar.edu 
845-222-9999 
 
Campus Address:           Home Address: 
124 Raymond Ave., Box xx            1234 Smith St. 
Poughkeepsie, NY 12604              Smithville, NY 12345 
 
Education 
Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, NY  
Bachelor of Arts, Women’s Studies and Sociology (Expected May 20xx) 
Senior Thesis: “The relationship between disco and masculinities in the United States” 
 
Experience 
President, South Commons (August 20xx – May 20xx) 
Vassar Student Association, Poughkeepsie, NY 
• Held one of 24 elected positions on Vassar’s student government council. 
• Collaborated with administrators, faculty, and students on a Vassar-specific alcohol research task force, a 
review of the Dean of the College, and the allocation of $700,000 to over 120 student organizations. 
• Participated actively in weekly meetings of VSA Council, Student Life committee, Finance 
committee, and subcommittees therein. 
 
Apartment Manager, South Commons (August 20xx – May 20xx) 
Vassar College Office of Residential Life, Poughkeepsie, NY 
• Oversaw grounds of a senior living area. 
• Communicated Residential Life policies and procedures to residents. 
• Utilized Vassar’s internal Citrix server for entering maintenance requests. 
 
Retail Manager (Summers, April 200x – August 20xx) 
Happy Jack Shops, Bolton Landing, NY 
• Supervised a staff of 4-7 per shift from a total staff of about 20 at a fast-paced, seasonal retail store 
in a busy summer location. 
• Developed an adaptable leadership style that hinged on fostering mutual respect and setting boundaries;  
managed a staff diverse in age range. 
• Enforced store policy and maintained detailed knowledge of an ever-changing inventory. 
 
Student Advisor, Josselyn House (August 20xx – May 20xx) 
Vassar College Office of Residential Life, Poughkeepsie, NY 
• Advised a House Team of 19 student residential leaders in a house of over 200 students. 
• Facilitated weekly group meetings with 9 Student Fellows to work collaboratively on solving problems 
among first-year students. 
• Attended weekly meetings with the Josselyn House Advisor and the Director of Residential Life to 
discuss House and campus climate, evaluate individuals' and the House Team's well-being, and develop 
pointed strategies for solving problems that arose within the House. 
 
Skills 
Computer: Microsoft Office Suite, Adobe Illustrator, social media (Facebook, Twitter, blogs) 
Language: Conversational Spanish 
 
