 24 
Sample CV # 1: Curriculum Vitae 
 
Leonard Labcoat 
XXX East XX St. Apt A           lalabcoat@gmail.com 
New York, NY XXXXX   (XXX) XX-XXXX 
 
Education 
 
Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, NY                 May 2012 
Bachelor of Arts in Chemistry GPA: 3.73 Science GPA: 3.78 
Graduated with Departmental Honors 
 
Relevant Coursework 
 
General Chemistry (with lab) General Biology (with lab) Organic 
Chemistry I and II (with lab) General Physics I and II (with lab) 
Advanced Organic Chemistry Biochemistry (with lab) 
Integrated Lab I and II Physical Chemistry: Molecular Structure 
Analytic Chemistry (with lab) Physical Chemistry: Thermodynamics and Chemical Kinetics 
Genetics (with lab) General Statistics 
Linear Algebra Multivariable Calculus 
 
Research  Experience 
 
Independent Research, Vassar College Department of Chemistry                September 20xx – May 20xx 
Mentor: Dr. Stuart Belli 
• Synthesized a functionalized carbon nanotube electrode that had ferricyanide groups covalently 
attached on the nanotube scaffold via cyclic voltammetry and chemical vapor deposition. 
• Analyzed in what matter the functionalization occurred, and how it affected the electrochemical 
properties of the carbon nanotubes. 
• Confirmed the existence of functionalized groups through multiple spectroscopy techniques. 
 
Independent Research, Vassar College Department of Chemistry      September 20xx – May 20xx  
Mentor: Dr. Stuart Belli 
• Investigated the electrochemical capacitance and faradaic characteristics of different carbon nanotube 
electrodes, which were each synthesized using distinctive metal catalysts and deposition durations. 
• Performed several different modifications on carbon nanotubes and observed their effects on the 
electrochemical behavior via cyclic voltammetry and impedance studies. 
• Aimed to determine the favorable conditions to grow carbon nanotubes in chemical vapor deposition. 
 
Research Assistant, Vassar College Department of Biochemistry        January 20xx – May 20xx 
Mentor: Dr. Eric Eberhardt 
• Synthesized mutants of Ribonuclease A (RNase A) via site-directed mutagenesis and subsequent 
chemical modifications. 
• Studied the effects of charge elimination and charge reversal on the conformational stability and 
catalytic ability of RNase A by examining its conformational free energies and enzymatic activity. 
 
Presentation Experience 
 
Oral presentation, “The Study of the Functionalization of Carbon Nanotubes and its Electronic            May 20xx 
Properties via Cyclic Voltammetry”, 2012 Undergraduate Research Summer Symposium (URSI), Vassar College 
 25 
 
 
Leonard Labcoat- Page 2 
 
Presentation Experience, Cont. 
 
Poster presentation, “Investigating the Electrochemical Behaviors of Modified Carbon Nanotube             May 20xx 
Coated Wire Electrodes” 
219th ECS Conference, Montreal, Canada 
 
Poster presentation, “Asymptotic Conformational Stability of Ribonulease A”               April 20xx 
10th Mid-Hudson ACS Undergraduate Research Symposium, Newburgh, New York 
 
Research Skills 
 
DNA Subcloning and Protein Synthesis: colony PCR, site-directed mutagenesis; gel electrophoresis, extraction, and 
purification; SDS-PAGE; bacterial transfection/transformation; digestion and screening by restriction endonuclease; 
enzyme assay; Coomassie stain and Western blot. 
 
Carbon Nanotube Electrochemistry: transition metal electroplating; chemical vapor deposition utilizing carbon gases; 
cyclic voltammetry and impedance studies; Raman spectroscopy readings of carbon nanotubes; program STATA. 
 
Job Shadowing 
 
Shadowed neurologist Dr. Han Mun-Gu       July 20xx – August 20xx 
Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seongnam, Korea 
• Observed the process of clinical examinations. 
• Participated in early morning patient rotations and organized patient data. 
 
Shadowed anesthesiologist Dr. Yun Mi-Ja       July 20xx – August 20xx 
Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, Seongnam, Korea 
• Observed the medical team during operations. 
• Helped recovering patients and aided in stabilizing them during the post-surgery period. 
 
Volunteer Work 
 
New York University Langone Medical Center, New York, New York       May 20xx – August 20xx 
• Served as a liaison between staff, patients, and visitors. 
• Assisted patients with their physical rehabilitation. 
• Escorted patients to their appointments. 
 
Seoul St. Mary’s Hospital, Seoul, Korea       May 20xx – August 20xx 
• Served as a translator for foreign patients. 
• Escorted foreign patients at the International Clinic Center. 
 
Activities and Leadership 
 
Active member, Liberty In North Korea (LINK), Vassar College        September 20xx– May 20xx 
• Raised awareness about the human rights and humanitarian crisis in North Korea. 
• Executed fundraisers to collect donations to provide emergency relief to North Korean refugees. 
  
Active member, UNICEF, Vassar College        September 20xx– May 20xx 
 
• Participated in campaigns to help create awareness on campus about current issues. 
• Reached out to the public to raise funds. 
