Rick Williams
Architect / Urban Designer  
 PROFESSION Architect, Licensed in the State of California
 
 EDUCATION n University of Calif., Berkeley; Master of Architecture, 1990
  n University of Calif., Berkeley; Master of Planning - Urban Design, 1990
n California Polytechnic State University, San Luis Obispo, CA; B.S. Arch., 1982
 PERSONAL PROFILE A partner and founder of Van Meter Williams Pollack, Rick Williams is a leader in 
urban design and transit-oriented development. With a background in both planning 
and architecture, Rick focuses on planning and urban design projects involving mixed-
use, transit oriented community plans and architectural design. His architectural 
work ranges from residential to mixed-use neighborhoods, urban infill, multifamily 
affordable and workforce housing throughout the Bay Area. Rick’s understanding of 
building types and the public realm informs urban design projects that benefit from 
realistic implementation strategies, development regulations and design guidelines.  
His urban design efforts include national and west coast TOD and infill plans.  His 
diverse experience also includes commercial and institutional projects. 
 
  Rick has worked extensively with public agencies, cities, nonprofit organizations, and 
diverse and disenfranchised communities.  He is adept at negotiating the regulatory 
framework and writing  innovative codes and guidelines to articulate the design 
parameters for mixed-use, pedestrian and transit-oriented development.  Rick’s 
primary focus is the implementation of complex, visionary design projects whose 
success  depends on high quality design, strong community involvement, unique  
financing and public-private development partnerships. Rick also continues to lead 
efforts on a variety of affordable housing developments within a wide number of 
communities in the Bay Area. Rick has lectured extensively on issues of contemporary 
urban planning, and his urban design projects have been published in books and 
leading design and planning journals.
 PUBLICATIONS n “Lofty Ambitions”  Professional Builder, August 2001
  n “Next Generation, New Urbanist” - Architectural Record, 1997
n “The Architecture of Community”-The New Urbanism
n “Density Perception”- Berkeley Planning Journal, Vol. 5 1990
 EXHIBITIONS n Transit Oriented Housing Symposium, San Francisco, CA
n Emerging Designs for Transit Based Communities, Los Angeles, CA
n Bronx Museum of the Arts, Affordable Housing Competition, Bronx, NY
   
 LECTURES n Implementing a TOD Vision, Bainbridge Is. WA.; Northwest APA, 2007
  n Vision to Reality; North Bay Smart Growth Symposium, 2006
  n Railvolution: TOD Regulations and Design Guidelines; Chicago, Dallas
n Congress for the New Urbanism (CNU); Portland
 
PARTNER RESUMÉ
