Taylor Fahmi
 Architect /  Project Manager
 proFession n	 Architect, Licensed in the State of California
n	 LEED Accredited Professional
n	 Member, U.S. Green Building Council, Northern California Chapter
 educaTion University of North Carolina, Charlotte; B.A. Architecture
 Firm responsibiliTies As a Project Manager at VMWP, Taylor oversees a project from initial conception to 
completed construction.  She is involved in feasibility studies, project competition 
proposals, and schematic design, as well as coordinating the construction 
documentation and construction phases.  She works closely with clients, consultants, 
engineers, and city staff to ensure that every project meets the needs of not only the 
owner and new residents,  but also the city and neighbors.
 personal proFile As a LEED Accredited Professional, Taylor believes that the tenets of sustainable 
design are highly compatible with the goals of affordable housing and strives to 
create buildings that address the community and the environment as well as the 
clients’ program and budget.  She is currently working on several affordable multi-
family developments for VMWP, both ownership and rental.  
  Currently, Taylor is the Project Architect on the Los Medanos VIllage affordable family 
apartments in Pittsburg, CA.  The project consists of 71 units of one, two, and three 
bedroom townhouses and flats.  There is also a community building housing meeting 
space, management offices, and a computer lab.  The project is designed to exceed 
Title 24 energy requirements by 22% and is participating in both the GreenPoint Rated 
and PG&E’s California Multifamily Homes Programs.
  Taylor is also the Project Manager on a 46 unit affordable independent senior 
apartment building in Lafayette.  In addition to the senior apartments, this HUD 
funded project includes community rooms, management offices, as well as a parking 
podium with housing above.  Designed with a variety of outdoor spaces for the 
residents, this building has multiple courtyards and patios as well as a deep, inviting 
front porch.   The Lafayette Senior Housing building is being designed to exceed Title 
24 energy requirements by at least 15% and will be participating in the GreenPoint 
Rated and PG&E’s California Multifamily Homes Programs.
  Before joining VMWP, Taylor worked on numerous multifamily housing projects 
throughout California.  These included both affordable and market rate developments. 
Project types varied, encompassing mixed use, high rise residential, and townhomes, 
as well as independent senior and assisted living facilities.  She has also worked 
on  several remodels of historic residential buildings that remained occupied during 
construction. 
 
 
  resumé
