Tim Van Meter
Architect, AIA / Urban Designer
 profession Architect, Licensed in the States of Colorado, California,
Utah, Texas & Hawaii
 educaTion n	 University of Colorado, Boulder; Bachelor of Environmental Design
n	 University of Colorado, Denver; Graduate Studies in Architecture & Planning
n	 Miami University, Europe; Graduate Studies in Urban Design
 personal profile Tim Van Meter, a firm partner and founder, is a leading architect and urban designer 
whose work has focused on green architecture and sustainable urban design. Tim 
heads the firm’s Denver office, which he established in 1999. He has led the design 
team on many of the firm’s complex and award-winning architecture and urban design 
projects in Colorado, Hawaii, Texas, New Mexico, and California. He is experienced 
in a wide range of architecture and urban design projects at various scales, focusing 
on transit-oriented development, neighborhood design, mixed-use urban infill, and 
affordable housing.
  On the national level, Tim is the Urban Design Adviser for the U.S. Environmental 
Protection Agency’s Smart Growth Program. He also was co-chair of CNU XVII, the 
2009 national conference of the Congress for the New Urbanism. A licensed architect 
in Colorado, California, Hawaii,Texas and Utah.
  A graduate of the University of Colorado School of Environmental Design, Tim has 
traveled extensively worldwide, studying design, planning, and environmental issues 
and their effects on communities. He is a community design consultant for numerous 
communities and organizations, and has extensive experience achieving consensus 
through the public process. He lectures on issues of urban and sustainable design and 
development across Colorado’s Front Range and throughout the West and Hawaii. 
 awards n	 ULI - Winner - Jack Kemp Award, Fire Clay Lofts, 2010
  n APA  Hawaii Chapter - Sustainability Award, Waipahu Neighborhood TOD
  n AIA - Colorado Young Architect’s Award, Railyard Lofts 2008  
	 	 n National AIA/HUD Housing Secretary’s Award, Valencia Gardens 2008 
n AIASF - Special Commendation Award, Valencia Gardens 2007
n	 SF Busines Times - Winner Affordable Housing, Valencia Gardens 2007  
n	 Gold Nugget - Merit Award Best Affordable Housing, Valencia Gardens, 2007
n	 ULI - Award for Excellence, Belmar, 2006
n	 AIA - Colorado Architect’s Choice Award, Railyard Lofts, 2006
n BSA - Boston Society of Architects First Prize, Westwood Square, 2005
n EPA - National Smart Growth Award, Belmar, 2005
n CNU -  Charter Award, Belmar, 2005 
n	 CNU - Charter Award Bay Area Smart Growth Study, San Francisco, CA  2003 	
n	 Small Business Network -  Small Business of The Year, 2002
n	 Renaissance Entrepreneurship Center - Established Entrepreneur of the Year, 2001
parTner  resuMé
